Roughly 34% of children age 6 to 19 years are overweight or obese
(BMIâ‰¥85^th^ percentile).\[1\] Unfortunately, these high rates begin in
infancy and early childhood with 23% of children being overweight/obese
by the age of 2 years. These levels are concerning because the rate of
weight gain in the first year of life is independently associated with
childhood obesity,\[2-6\] which is highly correlated with adult
obesity.\[7\] Greater adiposity leads to higher risk of obesity-related
morbidities such as cardiovascular disease,\[8\] diabetes mellitus,\[9\]
and cancer,\[10\] and overweight adolescents in particular have
increased risk of metabolic derangements and cardiovascular disease,
including death in adulthood from coronary heart disease.\[11\] If these
trends continue, obesity-related medical costs in the US will rise to
\$48-66 billion/year by 2030.\[12\] Overweight and obese children also
incur greater medical costs from more frequent lab studies,\[13\] a
greater numbers of sick visits, and greater mental health service
utilization.\[14\] Current interventions have begun to focus on
prevention among children less than 2 years of age, but success has been
limited.\[15\] Understanding the mechanisms and factors associated with
rapid infant weight gain in this early period may help to improve our
efforts at obesity prevention and treatment.

1\. Ogden CL, Carroll MD, Kit BK, Flegal KM: **Prevalence of childhood
and adult obesity in the United States, 2011-2012**. *JAMA* 2014,
**311**(8):806-814.

2\. Taveras EM, Rifas-Shiman SL, Sherry B, Oken E, Haines J, Kleinman K,
Rich-Edwards JW, Gillman MW: **Crossing growth percentiles in infancy
and risk of obesity in childhood**. *Arch Pediatr Adolesc Med* 2011,
**165**(11):993-998.

3\. Taveras EM, Rifas-Shiman SL, Belfort MB, Kleinman KP, Oken E, Gillman
MW: **Weight status in the first 6 months of life and obesity at 3 years
of age**. *Pediatrics* 2009, **123**(4):1177-1183.

4\. Baird J, Fisher D, Lucas P, Kleijnen J, Roberts H, Law C: **Being big
or growing fast: systematic review of size and growth in infancy and
later obesity**. *BMJ* 2005, **331**(7522):929.

5\. Ong KK, Loos RJ: **Rapid infancy weight gain and subsequent obesity:
systematic reviews and hopeful suggestions**. *Acta Paediatr* 2006,
**95**(8):904-908.

6\. Larnkjaer A, Schack-Nielsen L, Molgaard C, Ingstrup HK, Holst JJ,
Michaelsen KF: **Effect of growth in infancy on body composition,
insulin resistance, and concentration of appetite hormones in
adolescence**. *Am J Clin Nutr* 2010, **91**(6):1675-1683.

7\. Freedman DS, Khan LK, Serdula MK, Dietz WH, Srinivasan SR, Berenson
GS: **The relation of childhood BMI to adult adiposity: the Bogalusa
Heart Study**. *Pediatrics* 2005, **115**(1):22-27.

8\. Wilson PW, Kannel WB, Silbershatz H, D'Agostino RB: **Clustering of
metabolic factors and coronary heart disease**. *Arch Intern Med* 1999,
**159**(10):1104-1109.

9\. Colditz GA, Willett WC, Rotnitzky A, Manson JE: **Weight gain as a
risk factor for clinical diabetes mellitus in women**. *Ann Intern Med*
1995, **122**(7):481-486.

10\. Calle EE, Rodriguez C, Walker-Thurmond K, Thun MJ: **Overweight,
obesity, and mortality from cancer in a prospectively studied cohort of
U.S. adults**. *N Engl J Med* 2003, **348**(17):1625-1638.

11\. Baker JL, Olsen LW, Sorensen TI: **Childhood body-mass index and the
risk of coronary heart disease in adulthood**. *N Engl J Med* 2007,
**357**(23):2329-2337.

12\. Wang YC, McPherson K, Marsh T, Gortmaker SL, Brown M: **Health and
economic burden of the projected obesity trends in the USA and the UK**.
*Lancet* 2011, **378**(9793):815-825.

13\. Hampl SE, Carroll CA, Simon SD, Sharma V: **Resource utilization and
expenditures for overweight and obese children**. *Arch Pediatr Adolesc
Med* 2007, **161**(1):11-14.

14\. Estabrooks PA, Shetterly S: **The prevalence and health care use of
overweight children in an integrated health care system**. *Arch Pediatr
Adolesc Med* 2007, **161**(3):222-227.

15\. Summerbell CD, Waters E, Edmunds LD, Kelly S, Brown T, Campbell KJ:
**Interventions for preventing obesity in children**. *Cochrane Database
Syst Rev* 2005(3):CD001871.
